### Consumers’ Perceptions of Coffee Health Benefits and Motives for Coffee Consumption and Purchasing

Coffee is popular worldwide and consumption is increasing, particularly in non-traditional markets. There is evidence that coffee consumption may have beneficial health effects. Consumers’ beliefs in the health benefits of coffee are unclear. The study aimed at analyzing consumers’ perceptions of coffee health benefits, consumption and purchasing motives of coffee consumers with positive perceptions of coffee health benefits, and willingness to pay for coffee with associated health claims. Data were collected through a face-to-face survey with consumers, resulting in a convenience sample of 250 questionnaires valid for data elaboration. Results were elaborated with factor analysis and logistic regression analysis. Findings revealed that a relevant minority of consumers believed that coffee could have positive health effects. The consumer with a positive perception of coffee health benefits is mostly male, young, works, is familiar with non-espresso-based coffee, consumes a limited amount of coffee (generally not for breakfast and often in social settings), and buys coffee at retail outlets. Consumers drink coffee for its energetic and therapeutic effects. Coffee consumption is still price-driven, but consumers are interested in purchasing coffee with associated health claims. There is the opportunity to improve the perception of coffee health benefits in consumers’ minds.

---

### Coffee: Health effects and various disease treatments

To respond the growing demands for consuming natural foods, biochemical compounds originated from natural sources can be one of significant purposes for numerous researchers. In this review, we summarize the literatures regarding to the health effects of coffee consumption toward various human disease treatments, i.e., diabetes, cancer, liver diseases, and neurodegenerative diseases. The consumption of natural products is being common and considered significantly, for example, the potentially functional features of biochemical compounds contained in coffee have significantly contributed to clinical treatments of different human diseases. The experimental and epidemiologic evidences are indicated in this review to probably contribute to elucidate the protective effects of coffee consumption on several human diseases; besides, it is not still certain whether the consumption of coffee should be recommended to patients in some cases. Moreover, the chemical features and health benefits of coffee are introduced shortly, which can support readers understanding in detail to the benefits and the roles of coffee compounds.

---

### Association of Coffee, Decaffeinated Coffee and Caffeine Intake from Coffee with Cognitive Performance in Older Adults: National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2011–2014.

The aim of this study was to examine the association of coffee, caffeinated coffee, decaffeinated coffee and caffeine intake from coffee with cognitive performance in older adults. we used data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2011–2014. Coffee and caffeine intake were obtained through two 24-hour dietary recalls. Cognitive performance was evaluated by the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer’s Disease (CERAD) test, Animal Fluency test and Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST). Binary logistic regression and restricted cubic spline models were applied to evaluate the association of coffee and caffeine intake with cognitive performance. A total of 2513 participants aged 60 years or older were included. In the fully adjusted model, compared to those reporting no coffee consumption, those who reported 266.4–495 (g/day) had a multivariate adjusted odd ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) of 0.56(0.35–0.89) for DSST test score, compared to those reporting no caffeinated coffee consumption, those who reported ≥384.8 (g/day) had a multivariate-adjusted OR (95% CI) of 0.68(0.48–0.97) for DSST test score, compared to the lowest quartile of caffeine intake from coffee, the multivariate adjusted OR (95% CI) of the quartile (Q) three was 0.62(0.38–0.98) for the CERAD test score. L-shaped associations were apparent for coffee, caffeinated coffee and caffeine from coffee with the DSST test score and CERAD test score. No significant association was observed between decaffeinated coffee and different dimensions of cognitive performance. Our study suggests that coffee, caffeinated coffee and caffeine from coffee were associated with cognitive performance, while decaffeinated coffee was not associated with cognitive performance.

---

### Coffee Consumption and Cancer Risk: An Assessment of the Health Implications Based on Recent Knowledge

A significant number of studies suggest that coffee consumption reduces cancer risk. This beneficial effect is usually ascribed to the presence of polyphenolic antioxidants and anti-inflammatory agents, including caffeine, cafestol, kahweol, and chlorogenic acids. To summarize recent literature on this subject, we performed a bibliographic search in PubMed and Embase over the period January 2005 to December 2020 to identify cohort studies and meta-analysis (with data collection ensuring quality of selected reports) that could provide quantitative data on the relationship between coffee consumption and common cancers. The totality of eligible scientific articles supports the evidence that coffee intake is inversely associated with risk of hepatocellular cancer and, to a slight extent, risk of breast cancer among postmenopausal women. As to the association with other organs, including the esophagus, pancreas, colorectum, kidneys, bladder, ovaries, and prostate, the results are less clear as reports reveal conflicting results or statistically nonsignificant data. Therefore, this overview does not provide broad-based conclusions. Important uncertainties include general study design, inhomogeneous patient sampling, different statistical analysis (deliberate), misreporting of socioeconomic status, education, coffee-brewing methods, consumption of caffeinated or decaffeinated coffee, smoking habits, and alcohol intake. Clearly, more epidemiologic research needs to be conducted before solid science-based recommendations can be made with regard to coffee consumption.

---

### The anti-obesity and health-promoting effects of tea and coffee.

This paper reviews provenance, chemical composition and properties of tea (Camelia sinensis L.) and coffee (Coffee arabica, L. and Coffeacaniphora, L.), their general health effects, as well as the currently available knowledge concerning their action on fat storage, physiological mechanisms of their effects, as well as their safety and recommended dosage for treatment of obesity. Both tea and coffee possess the ability to promote health and to prevent, to mitigate and to treat numerous disorders. This ability can be partially due to presence of caffeine in both plants. Further physiological and medicinal effects could be explained by other molecules (theaflavins, catechins, their metabolites and polyphenols in tea and polyphenol chlorogenic acid in coffee). These plants and plant molecules can be efficient for prevention and treatment of numerous metabolic disorders including metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes and obesity. Both plants and their constituents can reduce fat storage through suppression of adipocyte functions, and support of gut microbiota. In addition, tea can prevent obesity via reduction of appetite, food consumption and food absorption in gastrointestinal system and through the changes in fat metabolism.

---

### Caffeinated Coffee Consumption and Health Outcomes in the US Population: A Dose-Response Meta-Analysis and Estimation of Disease Cases and Deaths Avoided.

To explore the role of coffee on health outcomes in the United States, where coffee consumption is common, we conducted a meta-analysis of prospective studies investigating the magnitude (any compared with no consumption) and the dose-response shape (cups per day) of the associations between caffeinated coffee consumption and incidence/mortality of cardiovascular disease (CVD), as well as incidence of type 2 diabetes (T2D), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), endometrial cancer, melanoma, and nonmelanoma skin cancer. We selected the desirable health outcomes that have been shown to be positively associated with coffee consumption. Studies were identified by searching PubMed/Embase databases up to September 2019. Inclusion criteria included prospective studies that investigated the relation of ≥3 categories of caffeinated coffee consumption and the outcomes of interest. Twenty-six studies (42 distinct cohorts), with 93,706 cases/deaths and 3,713,932 participants, met the inclusion criteria. In any coffee consumers, there was a significant inverse association with the risk of CVD (RR = 0.90; 95% CI: 0.84, 0.96), T2D (RR = 0.90; 95% CI: 0.85, 0.96), endometrial cancer (RR = 0.85; 95% CI: 0.78, 0.92), melanoma (RR = 0.89; 95% CI: 0.80, 0.99), and nonmelanoma skin cancer (RR = 0.92; 95% CI: 0.89, 0.95). Coffee consumption was also inversely associated with HCC (RR = 0.93; 95% CI: 0.80, 1.08), without reaching statistical significance. The dose-response relation was nonlinear uniquely for CVD (P-nonlinearity = 0.01). In particular, the largest risk reduction was observed for 3-4 cups/d (∼120 mL/cup) and no reduction thereafter. For other outcomes, the risk decreased linearly over the whole coffee consumption range. Current patterns of consumption in the United States would account for a fraction of avoided cases/deaths ranging from 6% to 12% according to the outcome considered. This study confirms the beneficial health effects of caffeinated coffee consumption in the US population on the health outcomes considered, and quantifies their possible magnitude.

---

### Health Effects of Coffee: Mechanism Unraveled?

The association of habitual coffee consumption with a lower risk of diseases, like type 2 diabetes mellitus, chronic liver disease, certain cancer types, or with reduced all-cause mortality, has been confirmed in prospective cohort studies in many regions of the world. The molecular mechanism is still unresolved. The radical-scavenging and anti-inflammatory activity of coffee constituents is too weak to account for such effects. We argue here that coffee as a plant food has similar beneficial properties to many vegetables and fruits. Recent studies have identified a health promoting mechanism common to coffee, vegetables and fruits, i.e., the activation of an adaptive cellular response characterized by the upregulation of proteins involved in cell protection, notably antioxidant, detoxifying and repair enzymes. Key to this response is the activation of the Nrf2 (Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor-2) system by phenolic phytochemicals, which induces the expression of cell defense genes. Coffee plays a dominant role in that regard because it is the major dietary source of phenolic acids and polyphenols in the developed world. A possible supportive action may be the modulation of the gut microbiota by non-digested prebiotic constituents of coffee, but the available data are still scarce. We conclude that coffee employs similar pathways of promoting health as assumed for other vegetables and fruits. Coffee beans may be viewed as healthy vegetable food and a main supplier of dietary phenolic phytochemicals.

---

### Coffee consumption and health: umbrella review of meta-analyses of multiple health outcomes

Objectives To evaluate the existing evidence for associations between coffee consumption and multiple health outcomes. Design Umbrella review of the evidence across meta-analyses of observational and interventional studies of coffee consumption and any health outcome. Data sources PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and screening of references. Eligibility criteria for selecting studies Meta-analyses of both observational and interventional studies that examined the associations between coffee consumption and any health outcome in any adult population in all countries and all settings. Studies of genetic polymorphisms for coffee metabolism were excluded. Results The umbrella review identified 201 meta-analyses of observational research with 67 unique health outcomes and 17 meta-analyses of interventional research with nine unique outcomes. Coffee consumption was more often associated with benefit than harm for a range of health outcomes across exposures including high versus low, any versus none, and one extra cup a day. There was evidence of a non-linear association between consumption and some outcomes, with summary estimates indicating largest relative risk reduction at intakes of three to four cups a day versus none, including all cause mortality (relative risk 0.83, 95% confidence interval 0.83 to 0.88), cardiovascular mortality (0.81, 0.72 to 0.90), and cardiovascular disease (0.85, 0.80 to 0.90). High versus low consumption was associated with an 18% lower risk of incident cancer (0.82, 0.74 to 0.89). Consumption was also associated with a lower risk of several specific cancers and neurological, metabolic, and liver conditions. Harmful associations were largely nullified by adequate adjustment for smoking, except in pregnancy, where high versus low/no consumption was associated with low birth weight (odds ratio 1.31, 95% confidence interval 1.03 to 1.67), preterm birth in the first (1.22, 1.00 to 1.49) and second (1.12, 1.02 to 1.22) trimester, and pregnancy loss (1.46, 1.06 to 1.99). There was also an association between coffee drinking and risk of fracture in women but not in men. Conclusion Coffee consumption seems generally safe within usual levels of intake, with summary estimates indicating largest risk reduction for various health outcomes at three to four cups a day, and more likely to benefit health than harm. Robust randomised controlled trials are needed to understand whether the observed associations are causal. Importantly, outside of pregnancy, existing evidence suggests that coffee could be tested as an intervention without significant risk of causing harm. Women at increased risk of fracture should possibly be excluded.

---

### Consumption of Chlorogenic Acids through Coffee and Health Implications

Chlorogenic acids (CGA) are the main antioxidant compounds in the Western diet, due to their high concentrations in coffee associated with the high consumption of the beverage. Until about 10 years ago, like many other phenolic compounds, CGA were thought to be poorly absorbed in the human digestive system. Along the years, large amounts of information on the absorption and metabolism of these compounds have been unveiled, and today, it is known that, on average, about one third of the consumed CGA from coffee is absorbed in the human gastrointestinal tract, although large inter-individual variation exists. Considering results from in vitro animal and human studies, it is possible to conclude that the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects of coffee CGA are responsible for, at least to a certain extent, the association between coffee consumption and lower incidence of various degenerative and non-degenerative diseases, in addition to higher longevity.

---

### Caffeine Consumption through Coffee: Content in the Beverage, Metabolism, Health Benefits and Risks

Caffeine (1,3,7-trimethylxanthine) is the most consumed psychoactive substance in the world, acting by means of antagonism to adenosine receptors, mainly A1 and A2A. Coffee is the main natural source of the alkaloid which is quite soluble and well extracted during the brew’s preparation. After consumption, caffeine is almost completely absorbed and extensively metabolized in the liver by phase I (cytochrome P450) enzymes, mainly CYP1A2, which appears to be polymorphically distributed in human populations. Paraxanthine is the major caffeine metabolite in plasma, while methylated xanthines and methyluric acids are the main metabolites excreted in urine. In addition to stimulating the central nervous system, caffeine exerts positive effects in the body, often in association with other substances, contributing to prevention of several chronic diseases. The potential adverse effects of caffeine have also been extensively studied in animal species and in humans. These aspects will be approached in the present review.

---

### Coffee consumption and plasma biomarkers of metabolic and inflammatory pathways in US health professionals.

BACKGROUND
Coffee consumption has been linked to lower risk of various health outcomes. However, the biological pathways mediating the associations remain poorly understood.


OBJECTIVES
The aim of this study was to assess the association between coffee consumption and concentrations of plasma biomarkers in key metabolic and inflammatory pathways underlying common chronic diseases.


METHODS
We investigated the associations of total, caffeinated, and decaffeinated coffee consumption with 14 plasma biomarkers, including C-peptide, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), IGF binding protein (IGFBP) 1, IGFBP-3, estrone, total and free estradiol, total and free testosterone, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), total adiponectin, high-molecular-weight (HMW) adiponectin, leptin, C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin 6 (IL-6), and soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor 2 (sTNFR-2). Data were derived from 2 cohorts of 15,551 women (Nurses' Health Study) and 7397 men (Health Professionals Follow-Up Study), who provided detailed dietary data before blood draw and were free of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, or cancer at the time of blood draw. Multivariable linear regression was used to calculate the percentage difference of biomarker concentrations comparing coffee drinkers with nondrinkers, after adjusting for a variety of demographic, clinical, and lifestyle factors.


RESULTS
Compared with nondrinkers, participants who drank ≥4 cups of total coffee/d had lower concentrations of C-peptide (-8.7%), IGFBP-3 (-2.2%), estrone (-6.4%), total estradiol (-5.7%), free estradiol (-8.1%), leptin (-6.4%), CRP (-16.6%), IL-6 (-8.1%), and sTNFR-2 (-5.8%) and higher concentrations of SHBG (5.0%), total testosterone (7.3% in women and 5.3% in men), total adiponectin (9.3%), and HMW adiponectin (17.2%). The results were largely similar for caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee.


CONCLUSION
Our data indicate that coffee consumption is associated with favorable profiles of numerous biomarkers in key metabolic and inflammatory pathways. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT03419455.

---

### Coffee and Tea Consumption in Relation to Risk of Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Women's Health Initiative Observational Cohort

Objective The aim of this study was to evaluate whether tea or coffee consumption is associated with an increased risk of older-onset rheumatoid arthritis (RA) using the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study. Methods The Women's Health Initiative Observational Study is a longitudinal prospective cohort study conducted from 1993 to 1998. There were 76,853 women who completed a self-administered questionnaire about their daily consumption of tea and coffee. One hundred eighty-five women self-reported and validated incident cases of RA were observed after 3 years of observation. Multivariable Cox proportional hazards models were performed to assess the relationship between consumption habits and disease incidence. Trend tests were calculated using categorical variables modeled as a continuous variable without collapsing. Results There was no increase in the hazard ratio for incident RA in those participants who drank coffee compared with those who did not. The amount of coffee consumed and the method of preparation (caffeinated/decaffeinated; filtered/unfiltered) also did not alter the risk of incident RA. There was a positive association of incident RA and caffeinated tea consumption in the trend test (p = 0.03). When assessing any caffeinated tea consumption versus no tea consumption, the hazard ratio for incident RA was 1.40 (confidence interval, 1.01–1.93; p = 0.04). Conclusions In a large prospective cohort of older women, there was no association between coffee consumption and incident RA. A small association between daily caffeinated, nonherbal tea consumption and incident RA was found.

---

### Association between the prevalence of metabolic syndrome and coffee consumption among Korean adults: results from the Health Examinees study.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between the frequency and quantity of coffee consumption and metabolic syndrome (MetS) in the Health Examinees study. A total of 130 420 participants (43 682 men and 86 738 women) were included in our study. Coffee consumption was categorized into 5 categories (0, <1, 1, 2-3, and ≥4 cups/day). We calculated odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervalS (CIs) using multivariate logistic regression. In this study population, the prevalence of MetS was 12 701 (29.1%) in men and 21 338 (24.6%) in women. High coffee consumption (≥4 cups/day) was associated with a lower prevalence of MetS compared with non-coffee consumers (OR = 0.79, 95% CI = 0.70-0.90, p for trend <0.0001 in men; OR = 0.70, 95% CI = 0.62-0.78, p for trend <0.0001 in women). The multivariable-adjusted ORs for high fasting glucose decreased with increasing levels of coffee consumption in men (OR = 0.60, 95% CI = 0.54-0.67, p for trend <0.0001) and women (OR = 0.70, 95% CI = 0.63-0.79, p for trend <0.0001). For women, the multivariable-adjusted ORs for hypertriglyceridemia (OR = 0.84, 95% CI = 0.75-0.93, p for trend = 0.0007) decreased with increasing levels of coffee consumption. We found that coffee consumption was inversely associated with the prevalence of metabolic syndrome among Korean men and women. Our study warrants further prospective cohort studies.

---

### Coffee, Caffeine, and Health Outcomes: An Umbrella Review.

To evaluate the associations between coffee and caffeine consumption and various health outcomes, we performed an umbrella review of the evidence from meta-analyses of observational studies and randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Of the 59 unique outcomes examined in the selected 112 meta-analyses of observational studies, coffee was associated with a probable decreased risk of breast, colorectal, colon, endometrial, and prostate cancers; cardiovascular disease and mortality; Parkinson's disease; and type-2 diabetes. Of the 14 unique outcomes examined in the 20 selected meta-analyses of observational studies, caffeine was associated with a probable decreased risk of Parkinson's disease and type-2 diabetes and an increased risk of pregnancy loss. Of the 12 unique acute outcomes examined in the selected 9 meta-analyses of RCTs, coffee was associated with a rise in serum lipids, but this result was affected by significant heterogeneity, and caffeine was associated with a rise in blood pressure. Given the spectrum of conditions studied and the robustness of many of the results, these findings indicate that coffee can be part of a healthful diet.

---

### Potential Oral Health Care Agent from Coffee against Virulence Factor of Periodontitis

Background: Coffee is a major dietary source of polyphenols. Previous research found that coffee had a protective effect on periodontal disease. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether coffee extract and its primary phenolic acid, chlorogenic acid, affect the growth and protease activity of a periodontopathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis). Methods: Coffee extract and chlorogenic acid were prepared by a two-fold serial dilution. The turbid metric test and plate count method were used to examine the inhibitory effects of chlorogenic acid on P. gingivalis. The time-kill assay was used to measure changes in the viability of P. gingivalis after exposure to chlorogenic acid for 0–24 h. The protease activity of P. gingivalis was analyzed using the optical density of a chromogenic substrate. Results: As a result, the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of chlorogenic acid was 4 mg/mL, and the minimum bactericidal concentration was 16 mg/mL. Chlorogenic acid at concentrations above MIC resulted in a longer-lasting inhibitory effect on P. gingivalis viability and significantly reduced associated protease activity. The coffee extract showed antibacterial activity as observed by the disk diffusion test, whereas these inhibitory effects were not affected by different roast degrees of coffee. Conclusions: Collectively, our novel findings indicate that chlorogenic acid not only has antimicrobial activity but also reduced the protease activity of P. gingivalis. In addition, coffee extract inhibits the proliferation of P. gingivalis, which may partly be attributed to the effect of chlorogenic acid.

---

### CHAPTER 16. Chlorogenic Acids: Daily Consumption Through Coffee, Metabolism and Potential Health Effects

Chlorogenic acids (CGA) are the main antioxidant compounds in the Western diet, due to their high concentrations in coffee associated with the high consumption of the beverage. Until about 10 years ago, like many other phenolic compounds, CGA were thought to be poorly absorbed in the human digestive system. Over the years, a large amount of information on the absorption and metabolism of these compounds have been unveiled, and today it is known that, on average, about one-third of the consumed CGA from coffee is absorbed in the human gastrointestinal tract, although a large inter-individual variation exists. Together with results from in vitro and animal studies, chlorogenic acids bioavailability supports, at least partly, the association between coffee consumption and lower incidence of various degenerative and non-degenerative diseases, in addition to higher longevity. Intestinal bacteria play an important role in the metabolization of the unabsorbed consumed CGA and probably also in the reabsorption of CGA excreted in digestive fluids.

---

### Coffee Consumption and Risk of Atrial Fibrillation in the Physicians’ Health Study

Background Although coffee consumption is often reported as a trigger for atrial fibrillation (AF) among patients with paroxysmal AF, prospective studies on the relation of coffee consumption with AF risk have been inconsistent. Hence, we sought to assess the association between coffee consumption and risk of AF in men. Methods and Results We prospectively studied men who participated in the Physicians’ Health Study (N=18 960). Coffee consumption was assessed through self‐reported food frequency questionnaires. The incidence of AF was assessed through annual questionnaires and validated through review of medical records in a subsample. Cox proportional hazard models were used to calculate hazard ratios and 95% CIs of AF. The average age was 66.1 years. A total of 2098 new cases of AF occurred during a mean follow‐up of 9 years. Hazard ratios (95% CI) of AF were 1.0 (reference), 0.85 (0.71‐1.02), 1.07 (0.88‐1.30), 0.93 (0.74‐1.17), 0.85 (0.74‐0.98), 0.86 (0.76‐0.97), and 0.96 (0.80‐1.14) for coffee consumption of rarely/never, ≤1 cup/week, 2 to 4 cups/week, 5 to 6 cups/week, 1 cup/day, 2 to 3 cups/day, and 4+ cups/day, respectively; adjusting for age, smoking, alcohol intake, and exercise (P for nonlinear trend=0.01). In a secondary analysis the multivariable adjusted hazard ratio (95% CI) of AF per standard deviation (149‐mg) change in caffeine intake was 0.97 (0.92‐1.02). Conclusions Our data suggest a lower risk of AF among men who reported coffee consumption of 1 to 3 cups/day.

---

### The Impact of Coffee on Health.

Coffee is one of the most popular and widely consumed beverages worldwide due to its stimulating effects on the central nervous system as well as its taste and aroma. Coffee is a complex mixture of more than 800 volatile compounds whereas caffeine and chlorogenic acids are the most common compounds. During the last years, coffee has progressively moved to a less negative position on health due to its better-known pharmacology. Caffeine, e.g., in a cup of coffee, appears to exert most of its effects through an antagonism of the adenosine receptors. Novel approaches in epidemiological studies and experimental researches suggest that coffee consumption may help to prevent several chronic diseases, including type 2 diabetes mellitus and liver disease. Most prospective cohort studies have not found coffee consumption to be associated with a significantly increased cardiovascular disease risk. There is also evidence that decaffeinated coffee may, in some respect, have similar benefits as regular coffee, indicating that besides caffeine other components contribute to the health protecting effects. For adults consuming moderate amounts of coffee (3 - 4 cups/d providing 300 - 400 mg/d of caffeine), there is little evidence of health risks and some evidence of health benefits. This review provides up-to-date information about coffee on health. Topics addressed include the cardiovascular system, liver diseases, and diabetes as well as gastrointestinal disorders.

---

### Potential Mechanisms Underlying the Role of Coffee in Liver Health.

Coffee, the most consumed hot beverage worldwide, is composed of many substances, of which polyphenols, caffeine, and diterpenoids are well studied. Evidence on potential effects of coffee on human health has been accumulating over the past decades. Specifically, coffee has been postulated to be hepatoprotective in several epidemiological and clinical studies. Several underlying molecular mechanisms as to why coffee influences liver health have been proposed. In this review, the authors summarized the evidence on potential mechanisms by which coffee affects liver steatosis, fibrosis, and hepatic carcinogenesis. The experimental models reviewed almost unanimously supported the theorem that coffee indeed may benefit the liver. Either whole coffee or its specific compounds appeared to decrease fatty acid synthesis (involved in steatogenesis), hepatic stellate activation (involved in fibrogenesis), and hepatic inflammation. Moreover, coffee was found to induce apoptosis and increased hepatic antioxidant capacity, which are involved in carcinogenesis.

---

### The Beneficial Effects of Principal Polyphenols from Green Tea, Coffee, Wine, and Curry on Obesity

Several epidemiological studies and clinical trials have reported the beneficial effects of green tea, coffee, wine, and curry on human health, with its anti-obesity, anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, and neuroprotective properties. These effects, which have been supported using cell-based and animal studies, are mainly attributed to epigallocatechin gallate found in green tea, chlorogenic acid in coffee, resveratrol in wine, and curcumin in curry. Polyphenols are proposed to function via various mechanisms, the most important of which is related to reactive oxygen species (ROS). These polyphenols exert conflicting dual actions as anti- and pro-oxidants. Their anti-oxidative actions help scavenge ROS and downregulate nuclear factor-κB to produce favorable anti-inflammatory effects. Meanwhile, pro-oxidant actions appear to promote ROS generation leading to the activation of 5′-AMP-activated protein kinase, which modulates different enzymes and factors with health beneficial roles. Currently, it remains unclear how these polyphenols exert either pro- or anti-oxidant effects. Similarly, several human studies showed no beneficial effects of these foods, and, by extension polyphenols, on obesity. These inconsistencies may be attributed to different confounding study factors. Thus, this review provides a state-of-the-art update on these foods and their principal polyphenol components, with an assumption that it prevents obesity.

